---
title: 'What\''s new 0.8.8, 0.8.7'
---

::: {.todo}
This site needs improvement!
:::

Fixed issues (overview) See here, contains version 0.8.6, 0.8.7, 0.8.8

Install 0.8.8 and 0.8.7 in parallel If you want to install bother
versions in parallel and copy the other\'s version model set and
settings over see Installing a new version in parallel and copy swift
data from other versions and swift installation and configuration guide

New features to handle model sets Tuning / tweaking a model set (model
matrix), please read the section of removing duplicates. Model string
alias T492 XPlane model strings (XPlane only) Version 0.8.7 fixed two
important bugs in X-Plane aircraft model strings. Both are only relevant
to model strings generated from ACF files - the ones that typically can
be used to fly in X-Plane. CSL aircrafts are not affected.

The two bugs are:

Some .acf files were ignored since the header information was not parsed
case-insensitive and the files wrongly marked as invalid. This caused
necessary meta information (like model author, ICAO type etc) not to be
available and to be guessed. That had major influence on the model
string The model string used by swiftgui in the login page contained the
relative livery path instead of just the livery name. Both bugs are
fixed and change the generation of model strings in swift. This also
means that we have an unknown number of invalid model strings in the
database. For this reason, we decided to delete all X-Plane ACF models
currently mapped in the database and recreate their mapping. But we need
your help to recreate the entries since we don\'t have all models
ourself. The number of models is about 224 (being 70 - 80 the Standard
XP models).

IMPORTANT: Please don\'t submit any X-Plane ACF model mappings using an
older version of swift. The minimum version to submit X-Plane models is
\>= 0.8.7. But if you have \>=0.8.7 we appreciate if you recreate the
mapping. P3D, FSX and FS9 user are unaffected.

Setting x64 P3D driver version Setting the correct P3D version (x64
only)

Model not rendered (mostly FSX/P3D) We have investigated potential
reasons for the model not rendered, please see Model / aircraft not
rendered (possible reasons and solutions). If you still face the issue,
try to figure out if the model is broken.
