---
title: Accounts explained and how to troubleshoot
---

::: {.todo}
This page needs major rework.

order to participate in swift testing a few accounts are needed and
hopefully this here will help to understand what they are and whom to
ask.
:::

Before we can help, we need to understand what the problem is. We
received requests like \"I cannot login\", \"I have not been approved\",
etc. Please tell us what you are talking about. What is not working

Downloading the software? The login to slack? The login to this site
here? Below you find some information about the different accounts,
please let us know where you face the problem.

::: {.warning}
::: {.title}
Warning
:::

Make sure you can receive email from us and the invitations for slack,
this site here etc. do NOT go to your SPAM folder.
:::

Downloading the software Downloading the software for alpha test:
<https://datastore.swift-project.org/> Most users login with VATSIM SSO.
If this is the first time, a user credential will be created. This
credential will be approved by one of the swift admins Typical problems:
Some users just login with VATSIM SSO, never contact us, and just
disappear. Those accounts will never be approved. Become a alpha tester,
or alpha tester for VATSIM You need to contact us, nothing will happen
before we have your full real name, VATSIM id (if applicable), and a
valid email address When you are becoming a member of the testing team,
you will receive 2 invitations (emails): One for this site here:
<https://dev.swift-project.org/> This is required for \"bug reports\",
\... One for slack:: this is the most agile form in getting in touch
with us to interactively resolve problems. Did you get the emails. Did
you verify your account here? Also we need to forward your credentials
to VATSIM who will allow you testing with a development client in the
network. Legal information: In doing this you deal with 3 parties: Us,
legal info is here. VATSIM, you have to check their legal information,
and if you install slack, also the corresponding information there. You
are absolutely free to register here or with slack. It is your personal
decision. We only use slack at this time because it is convenient, we
are not related in any kind of business association. No login with
VATSIM If you see this, VATSIM has not yet approved your id. If this
does not disappear within 3 days, please contact us. We then crosscheck.
