---
title: "Release of 0.9.2"
linkTitle: "Release of 0.9.2"
date: 2019-05-21
description: >
  Information about the 0.9.2 release.
---


{{% pageinfo color="primary" %}}
Reset your matching settings, then save them (Reset ALL and SAVE settings). Then set it according to your needs and save again, see Matching settings, using models without mapping entry / no DB entry. Most likely you also need to save your audio settings again, as those have changed and need to be updated.
{{% /pageinfo %}}



{{% pageinfo color="primary" %}}
XPlane users, if you install a test version (developer/aka alpha version) you have to manually install XSwiftBus! You can download it from the alpha download page, see Download developer and alpha versions from datastore .
{{% /pageinfo %}}

## Installation


We recommend you install 0.9.2 parallel to 0.9.1, then test it and if
your are happy with it, uninstall 0.9.1. There is no need to re-create
your model set, you can copy settings and data from other swift
installations at any time in the wizard.

## Fixes/Features

- List of bug fixes
- A first version of matching script, see `ms`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
- Airline groups now can be configured for their matching behaviour
- Logged interpolation now exports values as kml which can be verified in Google Earth. See how to log. interpolation here: Tracing interpolation. You will find the log files here: Find swift log files, crashdump files, interpolation log. files, the kml files are in the same directory.
- Linear interpolation was broken, hopefully now fixed
- DB values can be used for CG/vertical offset
- Forcible closed connection, see T698. In order to investigate we have added a network packets statistics which will hopefully help us to find the issue, still under investigation . But when you face the issue, sending the statistics file from the log directory will help us - Find swift log files, crashdump files, interpolation log. files. See Tracing network packets (FSD log) and network statistics how to enable.
- The COM1/2 features are available as experimental feature: T609 T675 See Integrate COM unit, sync with cockpit COM unit
- Auto publish, swift can automatically \"learn\" values for DB updates.
- Own aircraft values can be used for ground elevation, see \"record gnd. position\"
- Spline interpolation bugs fixed
- You can set the focus for the overlay messages
- X-Plane fixes
    - Some TCAS displays were not workin
    - Aircraft labels were too small on very high resolution displays
- Voice ATIS is now disabled whenever XSwiftBus is enabled
- Fixed weather as NOAA has changed its format
- Fixed support for international characters in text chat (see how to choose a text codec)
- Incognito mode for streaming: Incognito mode (hide names for streaming)
- Avoid FG crash with no model set
- Support for SVFR et.al.
- Flight plans can be downloaded from SimBrief
- more detailed XPlane settings
- advanced login screen to modify/set livery, model string and partner callsign (pilot/co-pilot), see Advanced login popup (since 0.9.2)
- the sort order of text messages can be changed.
