---
title: 'What\''s new 0.8.4'
---

::: {.todo}
This site needs improvement!
:::

swift now supports the gnd. flag (on top of supporting the gnd flag from
aircraft parts). It sends the gnd flag, and supports incoming gnd flag.
As there is no reliable detection of the gnd flag capability, a client
is marked \"gnd flag supporting\" if a) a valid true gnd flag is
received, or b) the client is manually set to gnd flag supporting via
the context menu. XSwiftBus no longer relies on the Qt libraries, that
means there is no longer a clash when another add-on uses Qt libs in
XPlane an airplane can be followed, from the swift menu, in P3D / FSX
taht feature is pending ground elevation queries have been unified among
XP/P3D/FSX: all three allow to query the gnd elevation at an arbitrary
position XPlane and FSX drivers now use a common concept / codebase for
interpolation some adjustments have been made to be the new GDPR
requirements (legal) gnd guessing for aircraft without any gnd.
information have been improved. improved interpolation logging
capabilities: Tracing interpolation FS9 support currently is
experimental only, we focus on P3D/XPlane/FSX. FS9 development consumes
a lot of time due to the fact it is the oldest platform. Plus the number
of users using it is decreasing, people start to use P3D or XPlane
instead. Done T224 data check T223 Pressure altitude T199 bootstrap copy
T220 fonts T218 T215 T199 T172

Xplane specific T269 T255 T250 T259 T266

VATLIB T244

All gnd flag tasks: T270 T261 T260 T251 T243 T241

Installer: T246

Pending: not done yet Teamspeak support MS T207 tasks
